Configuration files should always use "overrides" specific to certain file patterns, so that we can be certain that only our files, and the correct files, are being handled with that specific configuration. Whitelisting is better to avoid bugs in handling other code that might better not be handled by our config. If a 3rd party package needs to be handle, it's good to explicitely add it, and then you can specifiy how it should be handled, as it may not be handled the same as our own mono-repo packages.

While a webapp mono-repo has certain rules of structuring, it will be easy to configure, but a part of this can't be known or set in-stone up-front. The directory names used for the "main" directory for a package can always be the same ones, but the scope of the package is really specific to the project/company, so there we'll need to provide a way that this can be configure. We could look into resolving this dynamically, and if there is only 1 mono-repo, we can do this, but if there are multiple mono-repos, and some scopes are not in the current one, we are unable to know which scopes to include. So providing a configuration file where these scopes can be configured is the way to go here, so that we also don't run into problems that we need to provide higher-order function etc.... which will be more setup and handling, plus, it's part of configuration/setting-up the mono-repo for the project. From what I See, cosmiconfig is the industry standard for this, as that can resolve configuration from multiple locations, so users are free to put configuration where they want, though I'm not really pro for that aproach, I rather have a default that's the same for all confings, but that will never happen, therefore tools like cosmiconfig exists.
